##CodeBook for Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set##AbstractHuman Activity Recognition database built from the recordings of 30 subjects performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors.##Data SourceThe data for the project is available for download at:https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip)##Data DescriptionThe experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. There are twenty-six tables in the UCI HAR Dataset1.	activity_labels.txt2.	features.txt3.	subject_train.txt4.	X_train.txt5.	y_train.txt6.	subject_test.txt7.	X_test.txt8.	y_test.txt9.	body_acc_x_train.txt10.	body_acc_y_train.txt11.	body_acc_z_train.txt12.	body_gyro_x_train.txt13.	body_gyro_y_train.txt14.	body_gyro_z_train.txt15.	total_acc_x_train.txt16.	total_acc_y_train.txt17.	total_acc_z_train.txt18.	body_acc_x_test.txt19.	body_acc_y_test.txt20.	body_acc_z_test.txt21.	body_gyro_x_test.txt22.	body_gyro_y_test.txt23.	body_gyro_z_test.txt24.	total_acc_x_test.txt25.	total_acc_y_test.txt26.	total_acc_z_test.txtFurther description
1. activity_labels.txt.This table contains two (2) fields. It links the class labels with their activity name. First, Activity ID. Second, Activity Name: The values are: WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING2. features.txt.This table contains two (2) fields. First, Measurement ID, Second, Measurement Description: Listed a total of 561 variables. It provides a list of all features; the set of measurements estimated from the sensor signals obtain through the accelerometer and gyroscope in the smartphone.3. subject_train.txt.Training set. It contains 7352 observations with 1 variable (subject). Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 4. X_train.txt.Training set. It contains 7352 observations with 561 variables.5. y_train.txt.Training labels. It contains 7352 observations with 1 variable (activity class).6. subject_test.txt.Test set. It contains 2947 observations with 1 variable (subject). Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 7. X_test.txt.Test set. It contains 2947 observations with 561 variables (feature).8. y_train.txt.Test labels. It contains 2947 observations with 1 variable (activity class).9. total_acc_x_train.txt.Training set. The acceleration signal from the smartphone accelerometer X axis in standard gravity units 'g'. Every row shows a 128 element vector. The same description applies for the 'total_acc_y_train.txt' and 'total_acc_z_train.txt' files for the Y and Z axis. 10. body_acc_x_train.txt.Training set. The body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration. The same description applies for the 'body_acc_y_train.txt' and 'body_acc_z_train.txt' files for the Y and Z axis. 11. body_gyro_x_train.txt.Training set. The angular velocity vector measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second. The same description applies for the 'body_gyro_y_train.txt' and 'body_gyro_z_train.txt' files for the Y and Z axis. 9. total_acc_x_test.txt.Test set. The acceleration signal from the smartphone accelerometer X axis in standard gravity units 'g'. Every row shows a 128 element vector. The same description applies for the 'total_acc_y_test.txt' and 'total_acc_z_test.txt' files for the Y and Z axis. 10. body_acc_x_test.txt.Test set. The body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration. The same description applies for the 'body_acc_y_test.txt' and 'body_acc_z_test.txt' files for the Y and Z axis. 11. body_gyro_x_test.txt.Training set. The angular velocity vector measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second. The same description applies for the 'body_gyro_y_test.txt' and 'body_gyro_z_test.txt' files for the Y and Z axis. ##Getting and cleaning dataThe script run_analysis.R performs the following steps to clean up the data
1. Load the data from the UCI Har dataset2. Append training and testing records for activities. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the merged data set.3. Append training and testing records for feature measurements. Labels the merged data set with descriptive variable names.4. Append training and testing records for volunteers. Labels the column name as volunteers.5. Merge all 3 data sets (Subject, Activities, Measurements) to create one data set.6. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.7. Create an aggregate data set based on average8. Export output files##Outputs* A merged data.frame for training and test sets named “dataset” that contains 10,299 rows and 563 variables. * A reduced data set with the mean and standard deviation of the measurements – “reduce.txt” contains 10,299 rows and 68 variables.* A final data set created by aggregating by subject and activities – “tidyset.txt” contains 180 rows and 68 variables. 